[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: So that's the brain
we use to write computer programs.
And computer programs are the most
complicated things that humans make.
Computer programs are composed
of more elements,
which are more Intricately connected
than anything else we've ever done.
Maybe anything else we'll ever do.
Programs are really complicated and early
on it was recognized that programming is
hard and
wouldn't it be nice if we could figure out
a way to get the computers to
write the programs for us.
Because while we can do it,
It's really slow and error-prone.
Maybe the machines could do a better job.
So, that kicked off the experimentation
in artificial intelligence.
One of the goals of AI was to be able to
build a program that could write programs.
Now, AI has achieved a lot of things.
It can play brilliant chess now.
Pretty good game of jeopardy, but
you cannot give a set of requirements and
some customer interviews to a program and
say write that program.
You can't do that.
So instead,
we're still writing programs by hand,
that's the best we've been
able to figure out to do.
Programs can't do that for us.
What programs can do,
is translate one formal language
into another formal language, that's
something computers are really good at.
And so our programming languages continue
to improve over the years, slowly,
but they do improve,
constantly raising the level of
abstraction to where we get more leverage.
But it turns out, the number of lines of
code we can write a day is pretty much
fixed so that the higher level that we can
program, the more effective we can be.
And so programming languages are still
our best tool for managing programs.
One of the things that makes programming
so hard is the need for perfection.
A program has to be perfect in every
aspect for all possible inputs.
And even inputs that were not anticipated
at the time that the program was designed.
The contract we have with the computer
is that if the program is not
perfect in every detail, for
all states, for all possibilities,
the computer has license to do the worst
possible thing at the worst possible time.
And it's not the computer's fault.
Who's fault is it?
It's your fault, right?
You're the ones who get the call why
did you put out this piece of software
that has a bug in it?
That doesn't make sense,
why do you do that?
So given that, you would think that
we would never release a piece of
software until we knew it was perfect.
And we don't do that.
Because if we did we would
never release anything.
And so
that certainly would be counterproductive.
In fact we would not recognize
perfection if it ever occurred.
It's unlikely it'll ever occur.
But if it did, we wouldn't know it.
There's no test for it.
How would we know if something is perfect?
We can know something
passed all of its tests but
only a fool would think that passing all
the tests means it's perfect, right?
Tests cannot cover everything,
so we just don't know.
So given that what we do instead
is we release software early
knowing that it's full of bugs.
Hoping that we'll discover them
before they cause any damage or
before anybody else finds them.
Which is crazy, but it's the best we've
been able to figure out how to do.
That's the state of the art.
So we're doing this with the brains
of hunters and gatherers.
We are hunters and gatherers.
There's been no human evolution
since at least the last ice age, and
there is nothing in that experience to
have prepared us for doing programming.
Somehow we can do it anyway,
which is sort of miraculous.
>> Douglas Crockford: So evolution likes
to make use of dual use technologies and
I have to figure this happened here too.
Since there was no preparation for
programming, we're making use of
facilities that we had for other purposes.
So, programming obviously makes
use of system two, right?
Because that, it's analytical
where algorithms work, all that.
But I have to figure system
one has an effect here too.
Sometimes a negative one but
I think there's a positive effect,
that we cannot describe
how we do programs.
You cannot write down a algorithm for
programming something which will take the
problem statement and turn it into code.
We don't know how to do that.
We all have this process that we do where
we'll take something and we'll analyze it.
And we'll look at it top down and we'll
look at it bottom up, and inside out and
outside in, and micro and macro.
We're constantly changing our point of
view the thing until suddenly [SOUND]
a program happens.
And we do not know how we do that,
you cannot write down the steps
by which that's accomplished.
Somehow all of us have figured that out.
But not to the extent that we could
tell a program how we did it.
It's magical and I have to figure system
one has something to do with that.
It somehow is kind of intuitively, you
know intuition is in system one, right.
Intuitively pushing us around,
helping us to solve problems for
which we don't have enough information,
system one is great at that.
Allowing us to find those flashes
of insight that make the whole
thing possible.
So I think programming would be
impossible if it were not for system one.
Now I have no evidence to
support that statement, but
system one tells me it's true so
I believe it.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Douglas Crockford: No,
programming is all about
making trade-offs.
Cuz there are always multiple
ways of doing something, and
each of those has a cost.
And often, those costs are not known or
recognized at the time that
we're writing the program, so we're
guessing as we're making the trade-offs.
And some of the trade-offs
we make are good,
and some are bad, but that's the process,
that's what we're doing.
And it turns out system one
is terrible at trade-offs,
because it evaluates things wrong.
And we'll show you some examples of that.
So I'm gonna be showing you examples
of programming style in JavaScript.
But this analysis could be applied, should
be applied to every programming language.
Every language has good parts and
every language has bad parts,
it's just inevitable.
Every designer intends to create
a language composed of only good parts,
but things always go wrong unexpectedly.
Now JavaScript is unique in that
it's good parts are some of
the best good parts ever put
into a programming language.
And later we'll talk about what those are.
And it's bad parts of some of
the worst parts ever put into
a programming language.
It's much more extreme in the goodness and
badness than other languages, but
all languages have that in common.
So because JavaScript has so many bad
parts in it, and because they are so
treacherous, and because I'm trying to
achieve perfection, and there is so much
in the language which is working against
me, I wrote a program called JSLint.